Reverse ETL 2.0 docs (#6571)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/reverse-etl/manage-retl.md

---
title: Manage Reverse ETL Syncs
beta: false
---

View your sync history, gain insights into sync statuses, and restart or replay failed or partially successful syncs.

## Sync overview
On the Reverse ETL sync overview tab for your destination, you can see information about your recent Reverse ETL syncs at a glance, search for recent syncs, and quickly access the mappings and models that power Reverse ETL.

> ![A screenshot of the sync overview page, which includes one failed sync and three successful syncs. ](images/sync-overview.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![A screenshot of the sync overview page, which includes one failed sync and three successful syncs.](images/sync-overview.png)
```

2. Select the destination you want to view.
3. Select the mapping you want to view.  
4. Click the sync you want to view to get details of the sync. You can view:
    * The status of the sync.
    * Details of how long it took for the sync to complete.
    * How many total records were extracted, as well as a breakdown of the number of records added, updated, and deleted.
    * The load results - how many successful records were synced as well as how many records were updated, deleted, or are new.
5. If your sync failed, click the failed reason to get more details on the error and view sample payloads to help troubleshoot the issue.

> info "Segment automatically retries events that were extracted but failed to load"
> Segment retries events for 14 days following a total or partial sync failure. Before loading the failed records on a subsequent sync, Segment checks for the latest changes in your data to ensure the data loaded into your warehouse isn't stale. If the error causing the load failure is coming from an upstream tool, you can fix the error in the upstream tool to ensure the record loads on the next sync. 

## Reset syncs

> You can reset your syncs so that your data is synced from the beginning. This means that Segment resyncs your entire dataset for the model.

Author: ```suggestion
You can reset your syncs so that your data is synced from the beginning. This means that Segment resyncs your entire dataset for the model. During the next sync, all records extracted by the model will be sent to your destination, not just the records that changed since the last sync.
```

To reset a sync:
1. Select the three dots next to **Sync now**.
2. Select **Reset sync**. 

> 3. Select the checkbox that you understand what happens when a sync is reset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the checkbox that you understand what happens when a sync is reset.
```

This wording is a little funky.  What does the actual checkbox say?

Author: Good point - my test workspace doesn't have a RETL connection, let me see if I can find a Stage workspace that does to find this out

4. Click **Reset sync**.

## Replays
You can choose to replay syncs. To replay a specific sync, contact [friends@segment.com](mailto:friends@segment.com). Keep in mind that triggering a replay resyncs all records for a given sync.

## Alerting
You can opt in to receive email, Slack, and in-app alerts about Reverse ETL sync failures and partial successes. 

To subscribe to alerts: 
1. Navigate to **Settings > User Preferences**. 
2. Select **Reverse ETL** in the **Activity Notifications** section.
3. Click the Reverse ETL sync status that you'd like to receive notifications for. You can select one or more of the following sync statuses:
    - **Reverse ETL sync failed**: Receive a notification when your Reverse ETL sync fails.
    - **Reverse ETL sync partial success**: Receive a notification when your Reverse ETL sync is partially successful.
4. Select one or more of the following alert options: 
    - **Enable email notifications**: Enter an email address or alias that should receive alerts.

>     - **Enable Slack notifications**: Enter a Webhook URL and Slack channel name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Enable Slack notifications**: Enter a webhook URL and Slack channel name.
```

    - **Enable in-app notifications**: Select this option to see an in-app notification.
5. Click **Create alert**.

> success ""
> If you opted to receive notifications by email, you can click **View active email addresses** to see the email addresses that are currently signed up to receive notifications. 

## Supported object and arrays 

> When you set up destination actions in Reverse ETL, depending on the destination, some [mapping fields](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/setup/#step-4-create-mappings) may require data to be in the form of an [object](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/manage-retl/#object-mapping) or [array](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/manage-retl/#array-mapping). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set up destination actions in Reverse ETL, depending on the destination, some [mapping fields](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/setup/#step-4-create-mappings) may require data as an [object](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/manage-retl/#object-mapping) or [array](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/manage-retl/#array-mapping). 
```

### Object mapping
You can send data to a mapping field that requires object data. An example of object mapping is an `Order completed` model with a `Products` column that’s in object format. 

> Example: 

Reviewer: Could we throw this into a JSON code block?

            "color": "pink",
            "name": "tshirt",
            "revenue": 20,
            "inventory": 500
        }
    }

To send data to a mapping field that requires object data, you can choose between these two options: 

Option | Details
------ | --------
Customize object | This enables you to manually set up the mapping fields with any data from the model. If the model contains some object data, you can select properties within the object to set up the mappings as well.
Select object | This enables you to send all nested properties within an object. The model needs to provide data in the format of the object. 

> success ""
> Certain object mapping fields have a fixed list of properties they can accept. If the names of the nested properties in your object don't match with the destination properties, the data won't send. Segment recommends you to use **Customize Object** to ensure your mapping is successful.

### Array mapping
To send data to a mapping field that requires array data, the model must provide data in the format of an array of objects. An example is an `Order completed` model with a `Product purchased` column that’s in an array format.

> Example: 

Reviewer: Same as above, re: JSON.

    * The load results - how many successful records were synced as well as how many records were updated, deleted, or are new.
5. If your sync failed, click the failed reason to get more details on the error and view sample payloads to help troubleshoot the issue.

> info "Segment automatically retries events that were extracted but failed to load"
> Segment retries events for 14 days following a total or partial sync failure. Before loading the failed records on a subsequent sync, Segment checks for the latest changes in your data to ensure the data loaded into your warehouse isn't stale. If the error causing the load failure is coming from an upstream tool, you can fix the error in the upstream tool to ensure the record loads on the next sync. 

## Reset syncs
You can reset your syncs so that your data is synced from the beginning. This means that Segment resyncs your entire dataset for the model. During the next sync, all records extracted by the model are sent to your destination, not just the records that changed since the last sync.

To reset a sync:
1. Select the three dots next to **Sync now**.
2. Select **Reset sync**. 

> 3. Select **I understand what happens when I reset a sync state**. 

Author: ```suggestion
3. Click **I understand what happens when I reset a sync state**. 
```
